# Customer-churn-predicition-pyspark

# ABSTRACT
An important issue for credit card firms is credit card churn, which refers to the process through which customers cancel their credit cards. Accurate churn prediction can assist businesses in taking proactive steps to keep consumers and reduce losses. Credit card churn has been predicted more and more recently using big data technologies like Apache Spark and MapReduce. In this study, we look into how credit card churn prediction can be done using Apache Spark, a distributed computing technology. Using the machine learning framework provided by Spark called MLlib, we create a prediction model using a dataset of credit card transactions and customer information. First, we go over the difficulties in anticipating credit card churn and the potential benefits of big data technologies. Then, we give an overview of Spark and MapReduce and highlight the essential characteristics that make them effective tools for churn prediction. We also go over some of the methods used by Spark to anticipate churn, like multilayer perceptron and logistic regression. Lastly, we show the usefulness of the strategy using a case study of credit card churn prediction using Spark and MapReduce. Our results demonstrate that Spark is capable of handling massive data volumes effectively while delivering precise predictions of credit card churn. We come to the conclusion that Spark is an excellent resources for churn prediction and hold enormous promise for the banking sector.

# OUTPUTS:
We used The AUC (area under the ROC curve) as a metric to compare the models and AUC is a metric commonly used to evaluate the performance of binary classification models. In this case, we have four different models: logistic regression, MLP, gradient boost trees, and random forest.
Looking at the AUC values, we can see that the logistic regression model has an AUC of 0.7184, which is the lowest among the four models. The MLP has an AUC of 0.5871, which is the lowest of all the models. The gradient boost trees model has the highest AUC of 0.779, while the random forest model has an AUC of 0.7707.
# RESULTS AND DISCUSSION:
Based on these results, we can conclude that the gradient boost trees model is the best-performing model among the four, as it has the highest AUC value. However, it is important to note that AUC is not the only metric to consider when evaluating a model's performance, and it is always a good idea to evaluate the models using multiple metrics and techniques to get a more complete picture of their performance.


